# COVID19
COVID19

The 2019 novel coronavirus (a.k.a., ARS-CoV-2, 2019-nCoV, and COVID-19) has thrust the world suddenly into a deadly, ongoing pandemic. It is critical that researchers and policy makers have available a reasonably complete subset of the best available knowledge. Information extracted from biomedical literature provides a potential source of knowledge. Ideally, information extracted should be computable, or amenable to integration into downstream analyses. Computable knowledge extracted from the literature using machine reading is useful in many contexts such as drug repurposing or identifying pharmaceutical targets or risk factors for deadly complications. By traversing missing relationships as neighbors, authoritative nodes gain influence. We infer biological plausibility for nodes that are highly connected with other nodes in the network. We introduce a new resource, derived from the Semantic MEDLINE database (SemMedDB), reflecting documents also in the COVID-19 corpus. We extracted ~106K semantic predications and imported these into a network, computed network centrality metrics, and filtered the nodes by semantic type to search for drugs, drug targets, biomarkers, or comorbidities associated with lethal complications. Next, we applied network centrality metrics (degree, closeness, betweenness) to identify and substantiate association factors related to COVID-19 for biological plausibility. We were able to recapitulate agents already in randomized controlled trials for preventing or treating COVID-19 infections, comorbidities associated anecdotally with lethal complications, and also identify other agents which made sense upon further inspection. This guilt-by-association analysis shows that literature-based discovery methods can provide useful as a complementary information source.

